How can I predict the number of customers a new health club will have in 10 years?

Our answer is in file Chapter1customer.xlsx. Here we need to set up a model from
scratch. Spreadsheet models have inputs or assumptions that we use to calculate desired outputs. In a
basic customer estimation input model, we need three inputs:
■■ The number of customers at the beginning of Year 1.
■■ Churn rate: the fraction of starting customers (excluding new customers) who quit each year.
■■ The number of new customers obtained each year.

We entered values for these inputs in C2:C4. It’s important that spreadsheet inputs should be
separated from spreadsheet outputs and never hard-coded in Excel formulas. Separating spreadsheet
inputs from outputs makes it easy to determine how changing the inputs affects the spreadsheet
outputs.
The key to our customer estimation model is in the following relationships:
■■ (Ending Year t Customers) = (Start Year t Customers) + (New Year t Customers) – (Year Customer
quits).
■■ (Start Year t+1 Customers) = (End Year t Customers)
■■ Start Year 1 Customers = Value in Cell C2.
Another key to solving this problem is in knowing what we need to track during each year:
■■ Start customers
■■ New customers
■■ Quitting customers
■■ Ending customers
In cell C8, we compute the number of Year 1 starting customers with the formula =C2. Next, in
column D, we reenter the number of new customers from each year by copying from D8 to D9:D17
the formula =$C$3 or C$3.

Note that the numeral 3 must be preceded with the dollar sign; otherwise, when the formula in D8
is copied, the 3 would change, giving incorrect results. Preceding the letter C with a dollar sign is a
matter of choice because we are not copying the formula across a column.
The number of customers quitting each month is the starting customers multiplied by the churn
rate. Therefore, in column E we compute the number of customers that quit each month by copying
from E8 to E9:E18 the formula =$C$4*C8 or C$4*C8. Note here that the numeral 8 does not use the
dollar sign because when it’s copied, we want 8 to change to 9, 10, and so on.
The ending value for customers for each month is obtained by adding starting customers and new
customers and then subtracting quitting customers. Copying from F8 to F9:F18 the formula =C8+D8-
F8 computes each month’s ending customers.
For months 2–10, starting customers will equal the previous month’s ending customers, so copy
from C9 to C10:C17 the formula =F8. We find (don’t worry about the fraction) that after 10 years, our
health club will have around 127 customers.
The astute reader might argue that we really do not know the churn rate and number of new
customers each year. She is absolutely right. We should perform a sensitivity analysis to determine
how changes in each year’s new customers and the annual churn rate change the number of Year 10
ending customers. In Chapter 17, you will learn how to use data tables to perform such a sensitivity
analysis.